.\"
.\" $Id: smilint.1,v 1.3 1999/05/05 22:46:36 strauss Exp $
.\"
.TH smilint 1  "May 5, 1999" "IBR" "SMI Tools"
.SH NAME
smilint \- syntax and semantic checks of SMIv1/v2/ng modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smilint
[
.B "-sSvV"
] [
.BI "-l " level
] [
.BI "-d " level
] [
.BI "-c " config
] [
.BI "-L " location
]
.I "module"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsmilint\fP program is used to check MIB modules for syntax
errors and semantics at some degree.  Both, SMIv1/v2 and SMIng style
MIB modules are supported.
.PP
The rules that \fBsmilint\fP is based on, are taken from RFC 1155, RFC
1212 and RFC 1215 for SMIv1, RFCs 2578-2580 for SMIv2 and the
specifications of SMIng that are part of a master's thesis at the
Technical University, Braunschweig, Germany.
.PP
\fBSmilint\fP first reads the global libsmi configuration file
\fB/usr/local/etc/smi.conf\fP, as any libsmi application does. Then
the command line options are interpreted and finally, the
\fB/usr/local/etc/smilint.conf\fP configuration file is read, if present,
before \fBsmilint\fP starts its main operation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-s"
Report some per module statistics to stderr.
.TP
.B "-S"
Don't report statistics (default).
.TP
.B "-v"
On errors, do print the current line of input to stderr after the
error message and a marker pointing to the current token in the input
stream. Note that the corresponding point of error usually lies before
this marker.
.TP
.B "-V"
Don't print error lines (default).
.TP
.BI "-d " level
Print libsmi debugging messages at the given \fIlevel\fP (default: 0).
.TP
.BI "-l " level
Report errors and warnings up to the given \fIlevel\fP to stderr.
A higher level shows more warnings. The actual levels are:
.sp
.nf
 0   internal error, no recovery possible,
 1   major SMI error, recovery somehow possible but
     may lead to severe problems,
 2   SMI error, probably tolerated by some
     implementations,
 3   SMI error, tolerated by many implementations,
 4   something which is recommended to be changed,
 5   something that might be ok, but might not be
     recommended under some circumstances.
.fi
.sp
Higher levels are actually not used and lead to the same effects as
level 5 does. Note that errors up to level 3 are errors violating the
specification and must be fixed by the responsible author. Level 3 is
the default level.
.TP
.BI "-c " config
Read the configuration from \fIfile\fP. See smi_config(3) section
CONFIGURATION FILES for its format.
.TP
.BI "-L " location
Add \fIlocation\fP to the list of locations to search for MIB modules.
See smi_config(3) section MODULE LOCATIONS for location details.
.TP
.I module
This is the module to be checked. Note that this module is searched in
the list of known locations. If the module shall be taken from an
SMIv1/v2 file in the current directory, a "\fB-L smi:.\fP" option
should be added to the command line.
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/usr/local/etc/smi.conf     general configuration file
/usr/local/etc/smilint.conf smilint configuration file
.fi
.SH "NOTES"
Libsmi and this tool are work in progress. Expect changes in near
future.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The SMIng and
.BR libsmi (3)
project is documented at
.BR "http://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/~strauss/sming/" "."
Other commonly used MIB checkers are
.BR mosy "(1), "
.BR smicng "(1)."
.SH "AUTHOR"
(C) 1999 Frank Strauss, TU Braunschweig, Germany <strauss@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
.br
