.\"
.\" $Id: smi_string.3,v 1.4 1999/05/07 07:57:13 strauss Exp $
.\"
.TH smi_string 3  "May 5, 1999" "IBR" "SMI Management Information Library"
.SH NAME
smingStringStatus, smiStringStatus, smingStringAccess,
smiStringAccess, smiStringDecl, smiStringBasetype, smiModule,
smiDescriptor, smiMkTime, smiCTime, smingCTime \- SMI string
conversion routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <time.h>
.B #include <smi.h>
.RS
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smingStringStatus(SmiStatus " status );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smiStringStatus(SmiStatus " status );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smingStringAccess(SmiAccess " access );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smiStringAccess(SmiAccess " access );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smiStringDecl(SmiDecl " macro );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smiStringBasetype(SmiBasetype " basetype );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smiModule(char *" fullname );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smiDescriptor(char *" fullname );
.RE
.sp
.BI "time_t smiMkTime(const char *" s );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smiCTime(time_t " t );
.RE
.sp
.BI "char *smingCTime(time_t " t );
.RE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions allow conversions between various types of SMI elements
and printable strings.
.PP
The \fBsmingStringStatus()\fP function returns a string that represents
the SMIng notation of a \fIstatus\fP value. If \fIstatus\fP is not
an SMIng conformant status or does not allow an adequate conversion to
SMIng, the string "<unknown>" is returned.
.PP
The \fBsmiStringStatus()\fP function returns a string that represents
the SMIv1/v2 notation of a \fIstatus\fP value. If \fIstatus\fP is
not an SMIv1 or SMIv2 conformant status or does not allow an adequate
conversion to SMIv2, the string "<unknown>" is returned.
.PP
The \fBsmingStringAccess()\fP function returns a string that represents
the SMIng notation of a \fIaccess\fP value. If \fIaccess\fP is
not an SMIng conformant access level or does not allow an adequate
conversion to SMIng, the string "<unknown>" is returned.
.PP
The \fBsmiStringAccess()\fP function returns a string that represents
the SMIv1/v2 notation of a \fIaccess\fP value. If \fIaccess\fP is
not an SMIv1/v2 conformant access level or does not allow an adequate
conversion to SMIv1/v2, the string "<unknown>" is returned.
.PP
The \fBsmiStringDecl()\fP function returns a string that represents
the SMIv1/v2 notation of the macro or statement or the SMIng notation of
the statement given by the \fImacro\fP value. If \fImacro\fP is
not such a macro or statement, the string "<unknown>" is returned.
.PP
The \fBsmiStringBasetype()\fP function returns a string that represents
the SMIng notation of the base type given by the \fIbasetype\fP value.
If \fIbasetype\fP is
not a valid base type, the string "<unknown>" is returned.
.PP
The \fBsmiModule()\fP function returns a string that represents
the module part of the fully qualified descriptor \fIfullname\fP.
.PP
The \fBsmiDescriptor()\fP function returns a string that
represent the local descriptor part of the fully qualified descriptor
\fIfullname\fP.
.PP
The \fBsmiMkTime()\fP function takes a string argument that represents
an 11-char or 13-char SMIv2 style date (\fBLAST-UPDATED\fP or
\fBREVISION\fP), or a 10-char or 16-char SMIng style date
(\fBrevision\fP) and returns its value of type \fItime_t\fP or
zero if it cannot be converted.
.PP
The \fBsmiCTime()\fP function returns a string that represents the
13-char SMIv2 style date and time given by \fIt\fP.
.PP
The \fBsmingCTime()\fP function returns a string that represents the
16-char SMIng style date and time given by \fIt\fP.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The returned strings of all functions must not be released by the
caller. The strings, returned by \fBsmiModule()\fP,
\fBsmiDescriptor()\fP, \fBsmiCTime()\fP and \fBsmingCTime()\fP are
static. Thus, the caller must copy them before the next call to the
same function, if required.
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/usr/local/include/smi.h    SMI library header file
.fi
.SH "NOTES"
Libsmi is work in progress. Interface inconsistencies and deficiencies
will be removed in near future.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR smi.h ", " libsmi "(3)"
.SH "AUTHOR"
(C) 1999 Frank Strauss, TU Braunschweig, Germany <strauss@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
.br
