.\"
.\" $Id: smidump.1,v 1.2 1999/05/05 15:48:18 strauss Exp $
.\"
.TH smidump 1  "May 5, 1999" "IBR" "SMI Tools"
.SH NAME
smidump \- dump and convert SMIv1/v2/ng modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smidump
[
.B "-sSvV"
] [
.BI "-l " level
] [
.BI "-d " level
] [
.BI "-c " config
] [
.BI "-L " location
] [
.BI "-D " format
]
.I "module"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsmidump\fP program is used to dump the contents of a single MIB
module to stdout in a selectable format. This format may be a simple
list of objects or types but also a format fully compliant to SMIv2
or SMIng. This allows to convert modules from SMIv2 to SMIng and from
SMIng to SMIv2.
.PP
\fBSmidump\fP first reads the global libsmi configuration file
\fB/usr/local/etc/smi.conf\fP, as any libsmi application does. Then
the command line options are interpreted and finally, the
\fB/usr/local/etc/smidump.conf\fP configuration file is read, if present,
before \fBsmidump\fP starts its main operation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-s"
Report some per module statistics to stderr.
.TP
.B "-S"
Don't report statistics (default).
.TP
.B "-v"
On errors, do print the current line of input to stderr after the
error message and a marker pointing to the current token in the input
stream. Note that the corresponding point of error usually lies before
this marker.
.TP
.B "-V"
Don't print error lines (default).
.TP
.BI "-d " level
Print libsmi debugging messages at the given \fIlevel\fP (default: 0).
.TP
.BI "-l " level
Report errors and warnings up to the given \fIlevel\fP to stderr.
A higher level shows more warnings. The actual levels are:
.sp
.nf
 0   internal error, no recovery possible,
 1   major SMI error, recovery somehow possible but
     may lead to severe problems,
 2   SMI error, probably tolerated by some
     implementations,
 3   SMI error, tolerated by many implementations,
 4   something which is recommended to be changed,
 5   something that might be ok, but might not be
     recommended under some circumstances.
.fi
.sp
Higher levels are actually not used and lead to the same effects as
level 5 does. Note that errors up to level 3 are errors violating the
specification and must be fixed by the responsible author. Level 3 is
the default level.
.TP
.BI "-c " config
Read the configuration from \fIfile\fP. See smi_config(3) section
CONFIGURATION FILES for its format.
.TP
.BI "-L " location
Add \fIlocation\fP to the list of locations to search for MIB modules.
See smi_config(3) section MODULE LOCATIONS for location details.
.TP
.BI "-D " format
Use \fIformat\fP when dumping a module. Supported formats are
\fBsming\fP for fully compliant SMIng, \fBsmiv2\fP for fully compliant
SMIv2, \fBobjects\fP for a simple list of nodes in the object
identifer tree known to libsmi (only for libsmi debugging) and
\fBtypes\fP for a simple list of all types known to libsmi (also only
for libsmi debugging). The default is to dump in SMIng format.
.TP
.I module
This is the module to be checked. Note that this module is searched in
the list of known locations. If the module shall be taken from an
SMIv1/v2 file in the current directory, a "\fB-L smi:.\fP" option
should be added to the command line.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
This example converts the SMIv2 module IF-MIB in the current directory
with the highest parser error verbosity to IF-MIB.sming in SMIng format.
.nf

  $ smidump -Lsmi:. -l9 -Dsming IF-MIB > IF-MIB.sming
.fi
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/usr/local/etc/smi.conf     general configuration file
/usr/local/etc/smidump.conf smidump configuration file
.fi
.SH "NOTES"
Libsmi and this tool are work in progress. Expect changes in near
future.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The SMIng and
.BR libsmi (3)
project is documented at
.BR "http://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/~strauss/sming/" "."
.PP
.BR smilint "(1)"
.SH "AUTHOR"
Frank Strauss <strauss@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
.br
